discuss use cases and motivation (#106)
peppelinux/draft-demarco-acme-openid-federation: draft-demarco-acme-openid-federation.md

Entity Types for certificate requestors and issuers, facilitating automated
discovery of an issuer's ACME API.

> X.509 Certificates can be provided to one or more such entities, without having

Reviewer: ```suggestion
X.509 Certificates can be provided to one or more such Entities, without having
```

pre-established any direct relationship or contract.

> These certificates are useful for integrating with existing systems and

Reviewer 2: I feel like we could get more pushback as to what an existing system is, if not TLS.

Author: I rewrote this to include RADIUS as an example, since that protocol in the Eduroam context is the star example we'll use when we (🤞🏻) present this draft at IETF 124

protocols which require X.509 certificates and cannot be updated to learn about
OpenID Federation 1.0. These certificates could be for TLS {{?RFC8446}}, but

> this document does not require that CAs conform to any particular issuance

Reviewer 2: Using the phrase is inviting RFC 2119 nitpicking. Do we want that, or should we say something like
```suggestion
this document adds no requirement that CAs conform to any particular issuance
```

profile, because fields of the X.509 certificates like the Common Names, Subject
Alternative Names or Key Usages may depend on details of those existing systems.

This document extends {{!RFC5280}}, ACME ({{!RFC8555}}) and OpenID Federation
1.0 ({{OPENID-FED}}) in the following ways:

- It defines a new ACME identifier type called `openid-federation`.

- It defines a new ACME challenge type called `openid-federation-01` which

>   facilitates automated issuance of X.509 Certificates to requestors that can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  facilitates automated issuance of X.509 Certificates to Requestors that can
```

>   prove to a certificate issuer that they are trusted OpenID Federation 1.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  prove to a Certificate Issuer that they are trusted OpenID Federation 1.0
```

>   entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Entities.
```

- It defines new OpenID Federation 1.0 Entity Types `acme_issuer` and
  `acme_requestor`.

- It defines how OpenID Federation 1.0 Superior Entities can use Subordinate

>   Statements to publish X.509 Certificates previously issued with ACME.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Statements to publish X.509 certificates previously issued with ACME.
```

`acme_issuer`, or they may additionally require that such entities have a
valid Trust Mark with a particular Trust Mark Identifier.

~~~ BEGIN EDNOTE ~~~

This section is to be removed before publication.

> As of draft 43, OpenID Federation 1.0 does not provide a formal specification of

Reviewer: it defines it here: 

https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html#section-4
https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html#section-8.3

Author: I deleted this ednote since we are reconsidering whether to discuss discovery in #109

> dynamic discovery of entities, though an example of how it might be done is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dynamic discovery of Entities, though an example of how it might be done is
```

provided in {{Appendix A of OPENID-FED}}{: relative="#appendix-A"}. The OpenID
working group is considering adopting an additional specification for what they

> call {{OPENID-ENTITY-COLLECTION}}.

Reviewer: openid federation describes three different ways to discover the trust about a subject, these are the following ones:

1. discovery of the entity configuration, using the leaf's èwell known endpoint (openid-federation) and collection of all the states up to the trusted trust anchor (core component, basic way, bootom up approach)
2. starting from the listing endpoint of a specified trust anchor, inspection of all the immediate subordinates and subordinates untill that subject to evaluate is found
3. resolve endpoint, proxied trust

the discovery is always, therefore, about a single subject. Federation entity collection provides a smart way to collect trusted immediante subordinates and subordinates, facilitating data collection. It then gives states about more than a single subject.

We need to make our draft workign with basic compontents. Unfortunately, both the resolve endpoint and the collection endpoint are optional. We can mention them as discovery impl strategy, not making it a requirement.
